At this point, you have some background on the purpose of distributed file systems,
what they're good for and how they relate to HTTP.
As we mentioned, there are a couple of
distributed file systems available like Swarm and IPFS.
For this lesson, we'll be using IPFS.
The reason is that right now,
IPFS is more developed and we feel it's a better tool to get started with.
IPFS is immediate distribution protocol.
It's a new and popular implementation of this idea,
but this idea has existed before.
If you're familiar with things like BitTorrent or Napster,
then you might already have a decent idea of what it means
to be a peer-to-peer decentralized media protocol.
In these protocols, files are downloaded and shared by
users on the network and IPFS is no different.
It allows a set of nodes to upload,
download and share files with other uses in their network of peers.
To join the network, you'll need to install and run IPFS on your local computer,
and that's what we'll be doing in this lesson.
Once installed, you'll be connected to
this network and can begin sharing information right away.
Once you share information,
it immediately joins the community of files that can't be
blocked or deleted by any company or government.
With IPFS, you can share any file you'd like.
Things like text, images, videos, code, websites,
and DApps can all be shared and hosted by this network free of any cost to you.
After we install IPFS,
we'll work through examples of each of these file types.
We'll get hands-on and explain many of
the new concepts as we work with these files for ourselves.
One new idea that will come up and it's worth explaining
ahead of time is what's known as content-based addressing.
Content-based addressing is the idea IPFS uses to store and manage our files,
and it's completely different from HTTP,
which uses location-based addressing.
Location-based addressing is what we're already familiar with.
Files are referenced by where they are,
basically which folder can you find it in.
This idea dominates HTTP and is why our URLs are basically
just a long list of directory names that
lead us to the file or site that we're looking for.
The problem with this is what if the content is moved?
Well, that causes an error known as the 404 message.
Nearly everyone has seen this before.
It's the message you get when location-based addressing fails.
If content has been removed or even just moved somewhere else,
we still find ourselves following links that lead us to nowhere.
This is where content-based addressing is different.
Content-based addressing takes each unique file and gives it a unique hash value.
You can think of it just like blocks on a blockchain.
The content is forever tied to this value.
It cannot be removed,
and you can always find it by its hash value.
This does lead to its own unique challenges,
which we'll explore while we work with IPFS.
For now, it's just important to start thinking of this difference
between location-based addressing and content-based addressing.
Finally, there are many blockchain tools in the blockchain ecosystem,
and it helps to quickly see where this fits into
the path between you and the users of your application.
Your goal right now is to make an application
that users can access through their web browsers.
To do that, you'll use your code editor shown here as Visual Studio code.
We'll be using the truffle framework to develop,
test and deploy a theory and applications.
You can choose to run an Ethereum node locally and optionally use a tool like Infura,
which allows you to connect and distribute
the EVM workload across the nodes in the blockchain network.
Infura will help you distribute computation across the network,
and this all can be hosted on IPFS,
which will help you distribute the storage across their network.
All of this can be accessed on a web browser like Google Chrome using MetaMask.
You might notice we said IPFS is an alternative to
Google but here was still using Google Chrome.
Well, that's true but at this point,
Chrome and some other browsers are undeniably
the favorite for how users are going to interact with your application.
But if you're fully committed to decentralizing even your browser,
then you might be interested in checking out Brave,
an alternative decentralized web browser.
It's not something we'll be covering,
but it's simple to get started,
and it's definitely interesting to check out. All right.
That was a lot of new ideas and as a way out to help give you
as much perspective as I could to help you get started with IPFS.
At this point, we're done talking about ideas and we're ready to jump in and get started.
Coming up, you'll get IPFS installed on your computer,
get set up with your own node and start sharing files with the network.